Terminology Related to Cyber World :
1. Anti-Virus Software : A computer program designed to prevent and protect a computer or device from malicious codes and remove the same.

2. Authentication : It is a way of confirming or identifying the individual or organization by validating certain identities.

3. Authorization : Entrusting the right privilege to users for accessing the data or information or a system.

4. Attribute : Specifies the quality or characteristics of something taken for study.

5. Auditing : An act of examination or verification of features, controls, procedures and operations.

6. Availability : Ready to use or access for authorized people.

7. Administrator : A person who is vested with rights to manage a system or who has been appointed to execute some important tasks.

8. APT-Advanced Persistent Threat : It is a cyber-attack launched to steal the information or gain unauthorized access of an organization by an individual or a group which may go undetected for a long time. They are executed by trained professionals.

9. Attack : Socially or politically motivated attempts to target an individual, organization or country by unauthorized infringements causing damage to the system.

10. Bitcoin : It is a virtual currency introduced to make transactions on the web easier. Not associated with a particular country or regulations.

11. Cyber Attack : A deliberate attempt made to compromise the security of computers, networks, data bases and other infrastructures with the help of malicious activities which may lead to cybercrime.

12. Cybercrime : It is a criminal activity done with the help of a Computer or Network. Computer or Network is used as a tool. It is punishable according to Cyberlaw.

13. Cyber espionage : The use of Computers and Networks to gain illegal access for confidential information for some gain.

14. Cybernauts : People who are actively engaged in Cyberspace for all their social experience.

15. Cybernetics : Study of communication and control systems related to automation that are used to replace the human system.

16. Cyberspace : Cyberspace is the world-wide active sphere that uses electronic devices and spectrum through which one can share, create and exchange information regardless of their locations.

17. Cyber Security : Cyber Security is the body of technologies, processes and practices designed to protect networks, computers, programs and data from attacks, damages or unauthorized accesses.

18. Cyberterrorism : Use of Internet to threaten Individual, Group, Organization and Country or violent activity to cause harm for some gain.

19. Cyberwarfare : Targeting a Country’s digital infrastructures and resources through targeted attacks through the Cyberspace. The cyberspace is used as the battle field here.

20. Cryptography : Cryptography is the study of secure communications techniques that allow only the sender and intended recipient of a message to view its contents.

21. Confidentiality : State of maintaining secrecy of communication by restricting unauthorized access or disclosure of information.

22. Cloning : It is the process of preparation of identical objects.

23. Control : The power to impact decisions and processes in a system.

24. Cloud : It is a metaphor used for Internet. It is created to share resources with minimum management effort. It provides ubiquitous access to all shared resources on subscription basis.

25. DNS-Domain Name System : It is a naming system followed to identify computers and other services connected to the Internet.

26. Data : Raw facts and figures that do not convey any meaning by themselves unless otherwise used in a context.

27. Database : An organized collection of data with controlled redundancy.

28. Data Management : Includes all operations and disciplines related to management of data like acquiring, storing, processing, validating, protecting and management.

29. Destruction : The act of destroying something.

30. Disruption : Forcible disconnection of something due to some pressure.

31. Data Fraud : A deliberate attempt made to disclose the data or stealing of data for misuse. It is punishable according to cyber law.

32. DoS-Denial of Service : It is a type of attack or crime where the genuine users are denied access to the resources due to unavailability of the resources.

33. Extortion : Taking money or something of value by somebody by abuse.

34. Field : A unit in a data base table. A space allocated for a particular item in a table.

35. File : It is a collection of records.

36. Hardware : Denotes the physical components of computers, devices and telecommunication systems.

37. IPS-Intrusion Prevention System : It is a network security mechanism used to detect and prevent the network from illegal traffic exploiting vulnerability.

38. Information : Processed data that conveys meaning to the users. It has a purpose.

39. Information Systems : System that performs activities in an organized way to collect, store and communicate information.

40. Integrity : Moral uprightness (the quality of being honest and having strong moral principles.)

41. ICT-Information Communication Technology : It is the technology that provides access to information through telecommunication systems.

42. IoT – Internet of Things : An eco-system that connects all objects and things with Internet. Every object is embedded with a sensor.

43. Knowledge : Information with insights. Organizations build their own knowledge base.

44. Key-logging : Also known as key stroke logging. It is the act of recording or monitoring the key punch operations of the user without their knowledge.

45. Modification : The act of Alteration.

46. Malicious : An act done with the intension of harming others or exhibiting the desire to harm others intentionally.

47. Malware : It is an illegal piece of software designed to cause harm to the computers, servers and networks.

48. Metadata : A set of data that describes and gives information about other data.

49. Object oriented approach : A new concept or approach that redefines data in the form of data with functions for reusability and expansion.

50. Operating System : A firmware that manages computer hardware, software and other resources to provide services to all the users.

51. Phishing : An attempt made to access the user’s password or other secret information or credentials for malicious activities.

52. Risk : Possibility of a harm or danger.

53. Router : It is a network device that connects the network with Internet.

54. Ransomware : It is a type of malicious software that prevents the users from accessing their own data for want of money.

55. Reliability : It is the quality or state that ensures trust.

56. Server : It is a computer program or a device that has medium or high level of calibre.

57. Signal : Usually refers to the electronic pulses in the context of referring a data.

58. Super Computers : It is a Computer with very high level of performance used in very important higher end and high processing critical applications.

59. Service oriented architecture : It is a software development model that facilitates the distribution of application components of data for further operations.

60. Sniffing : Capturing data for unwanted operations in the context of security.

61. Software : A set of instructions in an organized and systematic manner given to a computer to do a task.

62. Spoofing : A type of crime where the intruder tries to gain unauthorized access to a system.

63. Spamming : Sending unwanted bulk electronic messages through media.

64. Script Kiddies : An unskilled individual who uses programs written by others to attack a computer network or a web site.

65. Social Engineering : The act of getting the confidential information from people with the intension of misusing it.

66. Social Media : An Internet based platform to share data or information with many.

67. Spying : Secret collection of data or operation without the permission of the owner or holder.

68. Telecommunication System : A system that is responsible for the transfer of data in the form of signals from one end to another end. In other words, from the sender to the receiver.

69. Theft : It is a crime executed by snatching the property or stealing from the owner.

70. User Interface : It is the connection or entry point through which users can interact with any system.

71. Virus : A small piece of code installed in the user’s computer without their knowledge to execute undesirable activities.

72. Vulnerability : It is a sensitive part of a system or unit. The part that cannot withstand the effect of hostile environment.

73. Wi-Fi : (wireless fidelity) Wireless networking technology. It also uses standards of operations.



















